Dear Teacher, I would like to ask what karmic consequences a person who constantly
curses others to death will face?
I express my gratitude for your virtuous deeds.
Respectfully, to the entire
assembly, karma arises from body, speech, and mind. If
our intention is to wish for others to suffer and
die, then
naturally, we will also
encounter suffering,
won't we? Remember, we create a living being in only three places: body, speech, and mind. These manifest in the five aggregates: form, sensation, perception, and consciousness. But it only manifests in body, speech, and mind,
right? It operates through the
actions of body, speech, and mind. Therefore,
if we constantly curse
others to die, we are creating more evil intent. Evil intent leads to evil consequences. That's a
very simple way of thinking. The
intensity of the curse determines the
karmic consequences.
A person who
constantly curses others, wishing for their
death,
will create an unpleasant energy field
for those around them; people
won't like it, right?  So, that's when
we'll damage
our relationships, right? Those
relationships won't be good, right? The
unpleasant feelings we have towards the general public—
do you see that sometimes when we meet
someone, we suddenly feel
uncomfortable, unhappy? Isn't that right? The
negative energy field emanating from their minds is
too strong, making us
dislike them, not wanting to
interact. Sometimes,
our thoughts are expressed through our tone of
voice, children. Even when we speak, it's
unpleasant. There are people whose words are
pleasant to hear, right? It's
due to karma. Words are also due to karma. Some
people speak with lust, some with
anger, some with
infatuation, right? They don't understand. They keep saying the same thing but don't understand,
right? Sometimes, what they say contradicts what they say,
right? Therefore,
our good deeds will generate good
karma around us. If we are
good people and always think positively,
people will come to us.  People feel
happy talking to me, they feel
comfortable, and I feel intelligent, right?
Do you see
that when we want to help people, we have to
think of many ways to help? Isn't it true
that when we think about helping, we
only think about good deeds and
turn them into good deeds, making people seem
lovable and not valuable? And what about
those who only wish for others to
die? They glare, they get angry,
they're very difficult, do
n't you see? Their temperament is difficult.
[Applause]
[Music]